This class is about the formation, current properties, and evolution of the Sun, planets and minor bodies of the Solar System; how they compare with planetary systems around other stars.  

Days: MWF
Time: 12:40PM - 1:35PM
Location: Journalism Bldg 360

Professor: Wang, Ji (wang.12220@osu.edu)
TA: Smedile, Vincent (smedile.1@osu.edu)
IA: Roush, Austin (roush.287@osu.edu)

Office hours: via an appointment by contacting the above. 

Textbook: https://openstax.org/details/books/astronomy-2e

We will go over seven major topics:
1, Earth, Moon, and Sky (Chapter 4)
2, Earth as a Planet (Chapter 8)
3, Earth-like Planets: Venus, and Mars (& Mercury, Chapter 10)
4, The Giant Planets (Chapter 11)
5, Galilean Moons, and the Earth's Moon (Chapter 12)
6, Cosmic samples (Chapter 14)
7, The Sun (Chapter 15) 

The course schedule is as follows:
Week 1, Aug 26, 28: Earth, Moon, and Sky
Week 2, Aug 31, Sep 2, 4: Earth, Moon, and Sky
Week 3, Sep 9, 11 (no class on Labor Day Sep 7): Earth as a Planet
Week 4, Sep 14, 16, 18: Earth as a Planet
Week 5, Sep 21, 23, 25: Earth-like Planets: Venus, and Mars
Week 6, Sep 28, 30, Oct 2: Earth-like Planets: Venus, and Mars, Planetarium Show on Biosignature
Week 7, Oct 5, 7 (no class on Oct 9 due to travel): The Giant Planets
Week 8, Oct 12, 14 (no class on Autumn Break Oct 16): The Giant Planets
Week 9, Oct 19, 21, 23: The Giant Planets, Galilean Moons, and the Earth's Moon
Week 10, Oct 26, 28, 30: Galilean Moons, and the Earth's Moon, 
Week 11, Nov 2, 4, 6: Cosmic samples
Week 12, Nov 9, 13 (no class on Veterans Day Nov 11): Cosmic samples
Week 13, Nov 16, 18, 20: The Sun
Week 14, No classes on Thanksgiving Week
Week 15, Nov 30, Dec 2, 4: The Sun, Planetarium Show on Solar Neighborhood
Week 16, Dec 7, 9: Wrapping up

For each topic, we will have the following modules:
1, Scientific content
2, A simple order-of-magnitude problem
3, A frontier research question
4, Writing two essays  
5, A 15-minute one-on-one oral exam 

You will be assigned a grade for each topic based on the following assignments:
1, Essays (5 x 2 = 10 pts). The theme for each of two essays can be chosen from the exercises at the end of each chapter. There is no minimum or maximum word count, however, the essay should completely address the chosen question. AI is allowed (check the AI policy below), however, you will pass an oral exam (see below) for each of the essay you complete.  
2, Oral exam (5 pts). The oral exam splits into two parts. The first part is on one the two essays to assess the learning outcome of a specific question that is related to the topic. The second part is to assess the learning outcome of the general knowledge that is covered during lectures on the topic. 2-3 Key Terms at the end of each Chapter will be asked to explained. One of the order-of-magnitude problems will be discussed. 

In total, your maximum final score is therefore 15 x 7 = 105 pts, which will be capped at 100 pts if exceeding 100 points. 

The grading scheme is as follows:
OSU Percentage Scale	LETTER GRADE
93% - 100%	A
90% - 93%	A-
87% - 90%	B+
83% - 87%	B
80% - 83%	B-
77% - 80%	C+
73% - 77%	C
70% - 73%	C-
67% - 70%	D+
60% - 76%	D
0%	E

Religious Accommodations
Our inclusive environment allows for religious expression. Students requesting accommodations
based on faith, religious or a spiritual belief system in regard to examinations, other academic
requirements or absences, are required to provide the instructor with written notice of specific
dates for which the student requests alternative accommodations at the earliest possible date. For
more information about religious accommodations at Ohio State, visit https://civilrights.osu.edu/support-options-and-accommodations/religious-accommodations.

Weather Or Other Short-Term Closing
Should in-person classes be canceled, we will meet virtually via CarmenZoom during our
regularly scheduled time. I will share any updates via email.

Academic Misconduct
It is the responsibility of the Committee on Academic Misconduct to investigate or establish
procedures for the investigation of all reported cases of student academic misconduct. The term
“academic misconduct” includes all forms of student academic misconduct wherever committed;
illustrated by, but not limited to, cases of plagiarism and dishonest practices in connection with
examinations. Instructors shall report all instances of alleged academic misconduct to the
committee (Faculty Rule 3335-5-487). For additional information, see the Code of Student
Conduct http://studentlife.osu.edu/csc/.

Students with Disabilities
The University strives to make all learning experiences as accessible
as possible. In light of the current pandemic, students seeking to
request COVID-related accommodations may do so through the
university's request process, managed by Student Life Disability
Services. If you anticipate or experience academic barriers based on
your disability (including mental health, chronic or temporary
medical conditions), please let me know immediately so that we can
privately discuss options. To establish reasonable accommodations,
I may request that you register with Student Life Disability
Services. After registration, make arrangements with me as soon as
possible to discuss your accommodations so that they may be
implemented in a timely fashion. SLDS contact
information: slds@osu.edu; 614-292-3307; slds.osu.edu; 098 Baker
Hall, 113 W. 12th Avenue.

Mental Health
As a student you may experience a range of issues that can cause barriers to learning, such as
strained relationships, increased anxiety, alcohol/drug problems, feeling down, difficulty
concentrating and/or lack of motivation. These mental health concerns or stressful events may
lead to diminished academic performance or reduce a student’s ability to participate in daily
activities. The Ohio State University offers services to assist you with addressing these and other
concerns you may be experiencing. If you or someone you know are suffering from any of the
aforementioned conditions, you can learn more about the broad range of confidential mental
health services available on campus via the Office of Student Life’s Counseling and Consultation
Service (CCS) by visiting ccs.osu.edu or calling 614-292-5766. CCS is located on the 4th Floor
of the Younkin Success Center and 10th Floor of Lincoln Tower. You can reach an on call
counselor when CCS is closed at 614-292-5766 and 24 hour emergency help is also available
24/7 by dialing 988 to reach the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline.

Title IX
Title IX makes it clear that violence and harassment based on sex and gender are Civil Rights
offenses subject to the same kinds of accountability and the same kinds of support applied to
offenses against other protected categories (e.g., race). If you or someone you know has been
sexually harassed or assaulted, you may find the appropriate resources at http://titleix.osu.edu or
by contacting the Ohio State Title IX Coordinator at titleix@osu.edu

Diversity
The Ohio State University affirms the importance and value of diversity in the student body. Our
programs and curricula reflect our multicultural society and global economy and seek to provide
opportunities for students to learn more about persons who are different from them. We are
committed to maintaining a community that recognizes and values the inherent worth and dignity
of every person; fosters sensitivity, understanding, and mutual respect among each member of
our community; and encourages each individual to strive to reach his or her own potential.
Discrimination against any individual based upon protected status, which is defined as age, color,
disability, gender identity or expression, national origin, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, or
veteran status, is prohibited.

Usage of generative artificial Intelligence (GenAI)
GenAI can fabricate information (for example, creating citations to sources that do not exist) or omit key information. You are ultimately responsible for the accuracy and integrity of your submitted work. Unless explicitly permitted below, representing AI-generated content as your own work is a violation of the Code of Student Conduct. Please check with your instructor if you have questions. 

These levels may apply to the entire course or specific assignments, as indicated by the instructor:

Permitted: You may use GenAI in all stages of the assignment, including the submission of AI-generated text or other content. 

Prohibited: The materials in this course may be subject to copyright protection. Do not input or allow AI to access external or instructor-created course materials (e.g., assigned readings, slides) into AI systems without explicit instructor permission. 

Requirement: You must verify the accuracy of all claims and citations. Students must cite any GenAI use by attaching a process record to each assignment.

Please contact me if you have questions regarding this course policy.

Legacy General Education (GEL) Goals and ELOs:
https://asccas.osu.edu/legacy-general-education-gel-goals-and-elos

